⭐ VSB Trick: It opens TWO windows
1️⃣ Operator Window (main app window)

Always appears on your laptop screen (Display 1) because Windows opens apps on the main display.

2️⃣ Projection Window (lyrics output)

A completely separate fullscreen window that VSB manually moves to Display 2.

This projection window:

✔ Has no title bar
✔ Is placed full screen on Display 2
✔ Always stays on top
✔ Shows text, background, etc.

This is how it behaves like a projector output.

🎯 So the projection screen ≠ main display

Even if Windows Display 1 is still your laptop, VSB controls Display 2 like this:

👉 Step-by-step (how VSB REALLY handles screens)
Step 1 — Windows:

Laptop = Primary (Display 1)
External monitor = Display 2

Step 2 — You open VSB:

The operator UI opens on Display 1

At the same moment, VSB programmatically creates a second form/window

Step 3 — VSB moves that second window:

It uses something like:

var screens = Screen.AllScreens;
projectionWindow.Location = screens[1].Bounds.Location;
projectionWindow.Size = screens[1].Bounds.Size;


And makes it fullscreen.

Step 4 — Projection window appears only on Display 2

While the control window remains on Display 1.

🧩 Now your question:

If VSB sets Display 2 as the main display, then opening VSB would make it appear on Display 2. How does the audience screen appear then?

✔️ Correct:

If VSB actually changed the Windows primary display to Display 2, it would break everything.

✔️ Reality:

VSB does NOT change Windows primary display. Ever.

It only pretends Display 2 is “main” by placing the projection window there.

⭐ Key Conclusion

VSB creates two different windows, each positioned explicitly on a screen:

Window	Where It Appears	Purpose
Main App UI	Display 1	Operator controls
Projection Window	Display 2	Audience display

No display is switched.
No system main-display change happens.

🔥 What happens if Display 2 is physically set as the primary display?

If the user manually sets Display 2 as PRIMARY:

Windows will open apps (including VSB) on Display 2

But VSB will STILL move the projection window to the “other” display (Display 1 or 2 depending on detection)

This can cause confusion (and is why VSB often tells users “Use Extend Mode with your laptop as the main display”).